---
layout: default
title: Target
---

# Target file

## What it is and why it's needed?

Different machines decompress the same file with different decompression times. So, in order to properly compute the decompression time of a compressed file for a given target machine, *bc-zip* needs a decompression time model tuned for that target machine (which may be different than the machine used in compression!).

bc-zip does not ship with any decompression time model by default. Instead, bc-zip needs a *target file* when it is invoked with the "compress" command.

A target file is a small, human-readable file which encodes the decompression time model for a particular machine.


## How do I get it?

A target file can be obtained in an automatic or semi-automatic fashion through the use of the provided *calibrator* tool.

A calibrator obtains the target file of the machine in which it is executed.

The calibrator tool is composed of two objects: a shell script `calibrator.sh` and an executable `calibrator`, both located in the `tool/` directory.

The user must invoke the shell script, taking care of having both the shell script and the executable on the same directory.

The tool is invoked as follows:

	./calibrator.sh 	<target name> <memory hierarchy descriptor>

Where:

- **target name**: the name of that particular machine. If X is passed, the outputted target file will be named X.tgt.
- **memory hierarchy descriptor**: A file with a line for each memory level (e.g. L1 and L2 caches, main memory), sorted by capacity, with just two fields for each line separated by some space: level capacity, in kilobytes, and latency, in nanoseconds.

A valid memory hierarchy descriptor could be the following:

```
32 				0.41
256 			1.2
6144			3.3
4294967296		80
```

Which means that that particular machine has a L1 cache of 32KB with access latency of 0.4ns, a 256kb L2 cache with latency 1.2ns, a L3 cache with latency 3.3 and a main memory of 4GB with latency of 80ns.

This file can also be generated automatically via the get_latencies tool, which can be invoked in the following way:

	./get_latencies lmbench_file

Where `lmbench_file` is the output of tool `lat_mem_rd` in the [LMBench3 suite](http://www.bitmover.com/lmbench/get_lmbench.html).

**Example**

	./calibrator client client_hierarchy.txt

Obtains the target file client.tgt of the machine in which it is executed, provided that client_hierarchy.txt properly describes the memory hierarchy of that machine.
